YouTube Audio Transcription
Generated: 2026-02-12 12:46:50
Token: g7C6dElDwQhC6G9zgEeHT9VCmNQ
======================================================================

Well, good evening, everyone. Welcome to Cornerstone. Would you stand? Let's worship the Lord together. You're still the rock that I cling to. Everything else falls apart. You're still the one I'm building up. Reason my hopes never lost. I'm standing on your goodness. I'm staying in the under good sky. Oh my God. You gave your life for my life. You crucify. Oh my sin and shape. He was washed by your sea. So my life becomes an offer to the one who is single together now. All praise. Jesus Christ my kingdom that keep for praise to the Lord most eye to the one who singles Christ my kingdom in my key voice I lift my hands and lay my whole life down my whole life death for you I lift my hands up they my whole life death my whole life is for you I lift my hands up claim my whole life my whole life for you I live my hand away my whole life my whole life is for you I live my hands uplay my death my whole life for you I live my hand up be my for you all praise to Lord most praise to the one who sing Jesus Christ and keep it sing more grace all praise to the Lord most praise to the one who save my night for Jesus Christ I give my hands a thing I'm like death my whole light death for you make my hands a claim I'll like my whole life death for you all praise to the Lord forever behold the land on the cross takes away the sins of all given this flows from hands and feet violence the prince of peace behold the key light of the world and that was saying the roast might need to say the fullness of God won't be kept in a grave darkness thrower is over the life is dying the grace of Calvary of the world and I will slay of the world I need to say boldness of God won't be kept in the grave full darkness to our resolve night of the world and I will say my need to stay bonus won't be kept in the grave all darkness your hour is over the hour of darkness is over because he has overcome the grave and now we have the power in him let's see no enemy can hold you down because there's nobody in the grave now one hand gets to wear that crown cause there's nobody in the grave now no enemy can hold you down there's nobody in the grave now one hand is to wear that crown I there's nobody in my grave now enemy can hold you down because there's nobody in the green now one hand is to wear that crown because there's nobody in the grave now enemy can hold you down there's nobody in the grave now is to wear that crowd there's nobody in the grave now that of the world that might need to say won't be kept in the grave for darkness to my light of the world and I was like for this of God won't be kept in the grave for darkness around his own enemy hold you down because there's nobody in the grave now is to wear that crowd 'cause there's nobody in the green now enemy can hold you down because there's nobody in the green now one hand is to wear that breath there's nobody in the grave now there's nobody in the grave now there's nobody in the grave now because there's nobody in the grave now we get to celebrate and rejoice in the risen Lord and so part of our service tonight is gonna include communion so you can be seated the ushers are gonna come and we're gonna celebrate the risen Lord who died on a cross was buried three days later rose from the dead and because of what Christ did for us on that cross we have salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. So if this is new to you what we're about to do is uh we're gonna sing one more song but the ushers are gonna in a moment hand trays down each row and on the trays are little sealed cups of grape juice and on the bottom of the cup is a piece of bread this is part of the ancient Passover meal that is still preserved today to remind us of the sacrifice of our Lord this is what we uh often refer to as the Lord's Supper or the last Supper. When Jesus took the bread and he gave thanks and he broke it. He said, This is my body which is broken for you. That's why there's a piece of bread on the bottom of this cup. And then he took the cup at that Passover meal, and he said, This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for you. And he said, Drink all of it. So we do this regularly to remember the sacrifice of Jesus on that cross. His body that was nailed to that tree, his blood that was shed for the forgiveness of our sins. So that we would never forget what Christ has done for us. So I'm gonna pray, and then the ushers are gonna distribute these trays down each row, and you're welcome to take one of these. Just hold it until we've all been served. I'll come back up and then we'll partake together. But let's just go to the Lord in prayer right now. Father in heaven, we thank you that you loved us so much that you sent Jesus to be that sacrifice for our sins. The one who knew no sin became sin for us, that in Christ we might become the righteousness of God. We thank you, Jesus, that you laid down your life. No one took it from you. You laid down your life for the sins of the world for my sins, for the sins of all of us here, Lord. You look down all time and eternity, and for the sake of humanity, you gave your life that we might have life. So, Lord, forgive us of our sins tonight. Even if we know you and have a deep relationship with you, we we still stumble, we still fail. But your word tells us in 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sins, you are faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So we thank you, Lord, for that forgiveness of our sins. For your mercy and your love and your grace toward us. Let's worship together. I say amazed in the presence. And my save them is He bore my burden to self burden. How marvelous wonderful in my song shall ever be marvelous, how wonderful is my say marvelous, how my song shall ever be marvelous, how wonderful is my safe, whose love for me. Lord Jesus, we thank you for your sacrifice for our sins. We remember your words that last Passover you shared with your disciples. When after dinner you took the bread, and you gave thanks and you broke it. You said, This is my body which is broken for you. Take and eat in remembrance of me. We do likewise tonight. On the bottom of your cup, you can just peel back that cover, and let's partake of the bread in remembrance of the body of our Lord Jesus. Likewise, after supper, Jesus took the cup, and he said, This cup is my blood of the new covenant which is shed for you. Drink all of it in remembrance of me. Let's partake of the cup together. Lord, with grateful hearts, we celebrate you, thanking you for your death, burial, and resurrection from the dead, your ascension into heaven, and the fact that you are coming again. Thank you for being our hope, Lord. We give you the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. The ushers are gonna come back with uh little trash can so you can throw your used cups away, and Pastor Tyler's gonna come and share some announcements. Good evening, everybody. So good to be on the house of the Lord, amen. And to finally seeing grass on the ground. That is nice. All right, a few announcements that we have going on in the life of the church that are happening this month, and then also into March. The first one is for you men. We have for our men's ministry the stake and study, which is coming up. Um Saturday, February 21st. And what what goes on here is that we have just an uh big breakfast of steak and eggs, and then we gather together here in the sanctuary for worship, and we're gonna hear guest speaker uh Virgil Walker. He's a teaching pastor from Arizona, and he's gonna be here with us. First time he's ever gonna be here will be for the steak and study. So that's at 8 a.m. sharp, and then we'll we'll be out of here by 9:30. And uh, but everything happens in the cafe, and then we we transfer here to the sanctuary. So, men, come on out, bring your sons, 14 and up, and uh we'd love to have an awesome steak and egg breakfast, and uh it's free by the way, too. So let's take that Chick-fil-A. Also, ladies, you have um your women's ministry Bible study that is gonna be launching again on Tuesday, February 24th, and it goes all the way to I believe April 28th, and you can pick two different times, 9 30 a.m., or if the 7 o'clock p.m. works better for you, you can choose that one as well. We just need you to um register at Cornerstonechapel.net, and uh you're gonna be going through this theme called He Is. And so uh it's gonna be an amazing time of just fellowship, worship, teaching. Um, and so ladies, in person or online is also available, but please register for this. And again, it begins Tuesday, February 24th, and it goes all the way through April 28th. And then you get to pick two time sessions, but see what works for you. We look forward to that. It's always a blessing having the women's ministry meet for Bible studies. And then last but not least, um, saddle up your horses. Stephen Curtis Chapman is coming out. Anybody else get that joke? Then you're not a true Stephen Curtis Chapman fan if you didn't understand that. Um it's a great song by Stephen Curtis Chapman. But he's coming out, it's a tough crowd. Anyway, he's coming out March. He's coming out March 1st. Thank you. That just ruined it even more. Um he is coming out here to have an awesome time of worship and concert, and that's gonna be Sunday night, March 1st. There are still tickets available, so that's why we're advertising this. You can go on our website. That's probably the best, easiest way to do it. Go to the website, cornerstonechapel.net and register, get your tickets while they're still available. But um, less than a month away, we are gonna be just jamming out with Stephen Curtis Chapman, having a good time, and uh we're gonna dive right in, going deep. All right, did you get that one? Okay, I got more, but I don't know. Um, but yeah, he's coming out, so it's gonna be a great time. All right, well, without further ado, now that you're comfortable, why don't you stand back up? Say hi to those around you. Welcome to the church tonight. I was just asking him, where's Pastor Brian? Pastor Brian, is the men's stake and study really free? Is it? Yeah, that's what Tyler said. I'm like, what's wrong with us? Why are we not charging these men? They work hard, we're feeding them. Oh well, all right, praise God. Jehovah Jirah. I think it's like a donation basis kind of a thing. Yeah, it's like a donation basis. Okay, so what's that? We do we really okay, great. So, yeah, donate heavily, everybody. So that's uh we are uh 1 Chronicles chapter 17. If you uh want to turn there in your Bibles, thank you for being here tonight. Thank you for our online viewers, uh Wednesday night service. We just go verse by verse, and we're through uh we are going through 1 Chronicles right now in your old testaments, and we're going through uh Philippians on Sundays. Uh, while you're turning there, I'm gonna repeat this announcement from Sunday for those of you who weren't here because I want the Wednesday crowd to hear what I said Sunday about the change of the Wednesday night service, because you guys have to be sure to know you are the Wednesday night crowd. So uh there's there's you know, there's some people who work and they can't come Sundays, and so then they can only come Wednesday night. So, announcing again, if you heard this already, that we are moving the Wednesday night service a half hour earlier, 6 30 p.m., starting March 11th, and don't worry if you think I can barely get there from work. We're gonna have dinner available for purchase, 5 30 to 6 30 on the on every Wednesday night. Some Wednesday nights when the weather's nice, we'll have food trucks outside, so it'll be nice for you to be able to buy dinner if you want to come the hour before. And the reason that we're moving it to 6 30 are for three reasons. One, to to kind of foster that fellowship over dinner if you want to come and have dinner ahead of time. Secondly, at a sensitivity to young families. I said this on Sunday. It is hard for families with young children to come to church at 7, get out at 8.15. By the time you get your kids out of children's ministry and get home, it's like 9 o'clock. That's kind of late for a lot of kids, especially school nights for young little ones. So we were moving this earlier to accommodate younger families who want to really make sure that uh they can get here as well as the older ones who don't have uh kids anymore. And then the the third reason is because we want to develop more ministry to the body of Christ by allowing the service to go from 6.30 to 7.30 with 20 minutes of worship. I'll teach for 40 minutes, and then 7.30 to 8 o'clock, that last half hour. We're we'll take a break at 7.30 for anyone who wants to leave at that point. You can scoop up your kids, you can go home, or you can stay for the last half hour will be a variety of ministry. It'll be kind of audibles, we'll call that Wednesday night. Sometimes it'll be just strictly a prayer time, maybe anointing the sick with oil. Sometimes it'll be communion, sometimes it'll be going out to the courtyard and having uh baptisms. But that last half hour will be for ministry within the uh the congregation within the flock. So that's the the rough schedule. 6 30 to 7 30 is the you know, the the service itself, 7 30, 8 o'clock. We'll either stay here in the sanctuary, we'll go to the courtyard if the weather's nice, and we'll have like part two. And then I mentioned the schedule real quickly coming up for the first Wednesday night in March at 6 30. I'm gonna do a Q<unk>A with with my sons because we had 1,400 questions submitted a couple months ago when we did the Sunday QA, so we're gonna try to tackle more of those, and we're gonna put an open mic. I know it's dangerous, but we're gonna put open mic and we're gonna have questions that night live. The following Wednesday night at 6 30, uh, March 18th, a special guest Shannon Bream will be here. Um, and I'm gonna be interviewing her about her new book called Nothing Is Impossible With God, which only comes out March 10th. So we're gonna be some of the first to be able to have her book here, and after I interview her, she'll stick around and she'll do a book signing, and you'll be able to uh purchase the book and meet her too. So that's March the 18th, and then the last Wednesday night, March 25th, will be Bible study, and then that particular night we will do baptisms. We're gonna advertise baptism nights because we have people online who travel from various states across the country, and we don't want to be that um spontaneous that then they never know when baptisms are. So we'll be announcing baptism nights, but we might do more than that depending on you know just uh um what the need is. So, but that's coming up March the 25th. So that's the schedule for March. March 11th starts the new Wednesday night service time at 6:30. So uh I hope this won't um squeeze anyone out now because we're moving in a half hour earlier. I hope it actually will accommodate more people, especially those younger families, and we look forward to uh having that new schedule starting March 11th. But for tonight and until then, we're still 7 o'clock, and so welcome to church, everybody. First Chronicles chapter 17 is where we are. We left off last Wednesday night at verse 15. I'm gonna pray first, and then we'll get a running start to remember the context of what we're reading here. So let's have a word of prayer first. Father God, it is good. Your word says, I was glad when they said to me, let us go to the house of the Lord. And so we're here, Lord, in your presence, in your house, studying your word. And thank you, Lord, for your word that speaks to us even still today. We pray that you would do just that as we read through these chapters, that you would speak to us tonight, that you would minister to us, Lord. We are needy, thirsty, hungry people, and we thank you that you're our good shepherd who takes care of us, who feeds us, Lord, who uh leads us to still waters. And we just pray you would do your good work in our hearts tonight. We give you the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. And everybody said, Amen. So in 1 Chronicles chapter 17, this is when the Lord speaks through the prophet Nathan to King David about his, that is God's covenant promise to David. And I will summarize again that covenant promise for those of you who weren't here. It was an unconditional covenant made between God and David, in which God promised David and Israel that the Messiah, Jesus Christ, would come from the lineage of David and the tribe of Judah specifically. And God promised to establish a kingdom that would endure forever. The Davidic covenant is unconditional because it is based on God's faithfulness and does not depend at all on David or Israel's obedience. And so God proclaims this through the prophet Nathan and basically tells David look, there will always be a king on the throne of your lineage. Now, obviously that doesn't mean that Israel's always had a king, that they've been dispersed for centuries, but what it does mean is that God has not forsaken the lineage of David, and that ultimately the king who will rule and reign from the throne of David is Jesus Christ, because he was a descendant of King David. You look at the lineage of both Mary and Joseph, which are found in the New Testament. Mary's lineage is given to us in Luke's Gospel chapter three, and Joseph's lineage is given to us in Matthew chapter one. And even though Joseph was not the biological father of Jesus, he still gave legal right to Jesus as his adopted son. And Joseph was a descendant of David's son Solomon, and Mary was a descendant of David's son Nathan, and thus Jesus had the both the biological and the legal right to assume the throne of King David. And so when Jesus comes again, it will be a fulfillment of the fact that the Messiah will rule and reign as a descendant of King David. But we'll talk a little bit more about it, but where we left off is verse 15 here of 1 Chronicles 17. And David now is going to respond to this wonderful message that he has just heard from the prophet Nathan about this. And it's a very humble response that David has. And so here's his response starting here in verse 15. It says, according to all these words and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David. And then King David went in and sat before the Lord. And he said, Okay, now notice, he's just, he's just gonna be like pouring out his heart before the Lord here. He says, Who am I? I, O Lord God, and what is my house that you have brought me this far? And yet this was a small thing in your sight, O God. And you have also spoken of your servant's house for a great while to come, and have regarded me according to the rank of a man of high degree, O Lord God. Now, when he says here, you've spoken of your servant's house, again, this doesn't mean his palace, it means his lineage. And he's just, he's just moved here. And so he just humbles himself in the presence of the Lord. He's like, Who am I that you would choose to do this to say such a thing for me? Verse 18, he continues, he says, What more can David say to you for the honor of your servant? For you know your servant. O Lord, for your servant's sake, and according to your own heart you have done all this greatness in making known all these great things. O Lord, there is none like you, nor is there any God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears. And who is like your people Israel, the one nation on the earth, whom God went to redeem for himself as a people, to make for yourself a name by great and awesome deeds, by driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeemed from Egypt. For you have made your people Israel your very own people forever, and you, Lord, have become their God. Okay. So notice here again, he's just pouring out his heart, it's gratitude, he's thankful. But again, you know, in light of the fact that you know we've been touching on this in the last few weeks, this growing anti-Semitism in our country and in our world, and the fact that even those in the church are now talking about this replacement theology nonsense where you know, God has taken his blessing off of Israel, given it to the church, because you know, Galatians 3, there's neither Greek nor Jew, slave nor free, male nor female, we're all one in Christ, as if that erases Israel's importance. Romans chapter 9, not all Israel is Israel, okay. All that simply means is Israel itself as a word means governed by God. Look, not everybody's governed by God who is Jewish, because they are only Jewish by observance, they are not really Jewish by faith in Jesus Christ. That does not negate the fact that God is not done with the Jewish people, and that many are coming to faith in Jesus even now, and many still will. When David says here at the end of what I just read, he says in verse 22, for you have made your people Israel, your very own people forever, and you, Lord, have become their God. Does it look like in David's prayer here that he thinks God will ever be done with Israel? No. He's never going to be done because he is he is a covenant God with the people of Israel forever, and you, Lord, have become their God. So there's much to still happen among among the Jewish people. Uh most Jews today don't believe that Jesus is Messiah. But what's interesting is in Romans chapter 11, it talks about how Israel has experienced a hardness in part until the full number of Gentiles has come in, and so all Israel will be saved. What does that mean? What it means is that Israel, right now, the majority of Jews have a hardness in heart as it relates to Jesus, not believing in him as Messiah. But God says that that is an opportunity for many Gentiles to come to faith. So we have this opportunity, most of us here, almost all of us are Jew, are uh Gentile, we have this opportunity to come to faith in Jesus, and guess what that does? Paul says that that spurs on the Jewish people to jealousy because they look and see what we have, and it brings about in them this jealousy for what we have. The the tour guide I've been using for over 25 years in Israel is a good friend of Terry's and mine, Ronnie Cohen, and Ronnie's a Jew who's a believer in Jesus, and he will tell you he came to faith in Jesus Christ because he was leading all these evangelical Christians on tours of Israel. And when he saw what we have, and when he saw the love that we have, one for another and for the Jewish people, that's what turned his heart to accept Jesus as Lord and Savior. And many Jews are still coming to faith in Jesus Christ today. And so, when Paul talks there in Romans 11, 25 and 26, and he ends and he says, And so all Israel will be saved, it doesn't mean that they get a pass. It doesn't mean that then when Jesus comes, he's just gonna take all the Jews to heaven. Everybody still has to come to faith in Jesus Christ and trust him as Lord and Savior. But what Paul is referring to is what Zechariah tells us is that prophetically, after the tribulation is over, the Jews that have survived will then have a greater awareness of the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and when Jesus returns, Zechariah tells us that the Jews will look on him and ask him, Where did you receive these marks? Referring to the marks of his crucifixion. Somebody once said, The only man-made thing in heaven are the marks of crucifixion that Jesus still bears. And when he returns, he still has those marks, even though he has a glorified body. And Zechariah says, the Jews will ask him, Where did you receive these marks? And Jesus will say, I receive them at the house of my friends. And then they will recognize that he is Messiah, but not before two-thirds of the Jews perish, Zechariah tells us during the tribulation. The one third that come out will then see Jesus for who he is, recognize him, put their faith and trust in him, and so all Israel will be saved. So when David is praying here about God's covenant with the Jewish people forever, please do not believe this replacement theology nonsense that that will seem to suggest that God had a place in time, but then the Jews rejected Jesus, so then all of this was placed upon the church. We've been engrafted, we have been accepted now into these wonderful promises, but God is not done with the Jewish people, and he does not forsake his covenant with them. And David knows this. This is why he's praying this. Keep reading. He he goes on to say in verse 23, and now, O Lord, the word which you have spoken concerning your servant and concerning his house, his lineage, let it be established forever. Notice, he's gonna say forever a few times here, and do as you have said, so let it be established, that your name may be magnified forever, saying, The Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, is Israel's God, and let the house of your servant David be established before you, for you, O my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build him a house. Therefore, your servant has found it in his heart to pray before you. And now, Lord, you are God, and have promised this goodness to your servant. Now you have been pleased to bless the house of your servant, his lineage, that it may continue before you forever, for you have blessed it, O Lord, and it shall be blessed. How long? Forever. Okay? So that's the emphasis. Now, keep your place there in first chronicles, and you can either listen or turn over to Isaiah, the prophet Isaiah. So it's uh keep going to the right, uh, a few books over to Isaiah chapter 11, because Isaiah sees the same thing. And there is this precious promise that Isaiah writes about in Isaiah chapter 11, and in the first two verses. Now, Isaiah prophesied around 750, 725 BC. Uh, David is around a thousand BC. So this is, you know, 275 years or so after David, but Isaiah is saying the same thing. Notice, this is prop prophetic about Jesus. This is Isaiah 11, 1 and 2. There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of its uh out of his roots, the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. All right, now this is a prophetic passage about Jesus the Messiah. I'm gonna point out to you, there shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse. Who is Jesse? David's father, David's father. So this is a continuation of this whole concept that out of the lineage of David, the son of David, uh the son of Jesse is David, there will come this branch that shall grow out of its roots. Now, in context, you need to know that Isaiah chapter 10 basically was God saying through the prophet Isaiah that he is gonna cut down every proud person like you would cut down a tree. But then he goes into chapter 11, and he says, But out of the stump of what I cut down, there will emerge one from the line of Jesse, from the descendants of David. And there will emerge this branch. You know what's interesting about the olive tree? An olive tree never really dies. That's why you can go to Israel today and see olive trees that are two thousand plus years old. Because when you cut down an olive tree, a branch comes up from the root, and then a new trunk starts, and you cut that down, and another branch comes up from the root. So conceivably, unless blight or it's you know, chopped down or fire or whatever, conceivably olive trees don't really die. And so that's what Isaiah is referring to here that the line of David is never gonna die. Because out of the stump will come this branch. Now, interesting in Hebrew, the word for branch is Netzer. Netzer. Who came from Nazareth? Jesus. He was born in Bethlehem, but he was raised in Nazareth. He was Jesus of Nazareth. The Hebrew word for Nazareth is Netzeret, from the root word of branch, Netzer. So the very one who comes from Netzair is the descendant of Jesse through the line of David. That's Jesus Christ. And he's the one who has the Spirit of the Lord resting upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. Now, just in case anybody thinks, well, maybe you're stretching that, maybe this isn't referring to Jesus as the rod from the stem of Jesse and a branch that shall grow out of his roots. Revelation 22, 16. The second to last sentence in the Bible that's in red, because it's the words of Jesus. And Revelation 22, 16, Jesus says, I am the root and offspring of David. You can't get more clear than that. I am the root and offspring of David. So Jesus there in Revelation 22, 16, is saying that Isaiah 11, 1, I'm the fulfillment of this, which comes back to 1 Chronicles chapter 17. So you can go back there. I wanted to just dovetail in Isaiah 11 because Isaiah is saying the same thing. David is thanking the Lord for his covenant promise that there will be one that comes from the line of David, who will reign and who will rule, and his kingdom will never end. The kingdom of Jesus. Look, he's on the throne now. He's coming again and will be on a throne for a thousand years in Jerusalem. And then forever we will be with the Lord. He's king of kings and Lord of Lords. Right now, you know, things are playing out on earth, but he's still sovereign. He's still king. He still is a descendant of King David, and he's never left the throne. So all of this is fulfilled now, will be fulfilled in person when Jesus returns again. And so David is just thanking the Lord. Like he's, he's just like so undone by this. He's like, who am I that you would choose me for this wonderful and amazing covenant promise that you are making, not just through my line, but really for the sake of the whole world. And so David is very humbled by this and prays and gives thanks to the Lord. Let's go into chapter 18, back here, 1 Chronicles, chapter 18. I just want to end chapter 17 with this promise, though. Just remember, God is a covenant keeping God, what he promises he will do. And that's that's what David is giving thanks about, and we should be thankful too, because look, if God, if God, and he doesn't, you know, he's not a man that he should change his mind, right? He does not lie, and he cannot change his mind. If he were that kind of a God who could change his mind, you and I would have no assurance of the promises of God in the Bible. And so it's a good reminder to us that he is a covenant keeping God and what he promises he will do. Now, into chapter 18. After this, it came to pass that David attacked the Philistines and subdued them and took Gath and its towns from the hand of the Philistines. And just pause there at verse 1, circled Gath, that is a town of the Philistines. But what I think is so significant, what spoke to me is the fact that, and most of you might know this, of course, is that Goliath was from Gath. And, you know, David had defeated Goliath about 20 years earlier. Because David now is 37 plus, and he was probably 15 to 17 when he killed Goliath. So this is 20 years later. But oh, how sweet this is. I mean, think about this. The guy that Goliath, this giant who tried to slay the Israelites, and by slaying David, when he met his match with David, because the Lord was on David's side, and then David slew this giant, and then 20 years later, David goes and takes the very city of the giant that tried to defeat him. And to me, it just spoke this simple principle, everybody, that God will help us to recapture what the enemy stole. God will help us to recapture what the enemy stole. The enemy, you know, Goliath, and I know it's dangerous sometimes to see everything with typology, but when you look at Goliath, that story of David and Goliath, you know, the underdog David and the giant Goliath, but every underdog who has the Lord on his side is greater than any enemy. And so it is true with us that greater is he, the Lord in us than he that is in the world. And we have an enemy of our souls, and at times he seems like a giant, but when we know that we walk in the Lord, we have nothing to fear. The enemy prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour, Peter says, but resist him, standing firm in the faith. And he will flee. Resist the devil, he will flee. And so just the fact that he takes the city of the guy that tried to kill him, this giant, this enemy of Israel, it just speaks about how God helps us to recapture what the enemies stole. Verse 2. And then he defeated Moab, and the Moabites became David's servants and brought tribute. You're gonna see in this whole 18th chapter, it's it's one victory after another. It's the expansion of the of the kingdom of Israel under King David to some of its largest borders, and it's just kind of a log of all the different kings and uh foreign kings and foreign nations that he has subdued. And when he subdues them, they become, you know, these tribute-paying uh countries because they are appeasing the king, and they are subject to his taxation now. So, so here we go, verse three. And David defeated Hadadezer, king of Zobah, as far as Hamath. Now, Zobah is basically the region of northern Syria, and uh history tells us there was vast resources of minerals and vineyards and fields. So this is this is a good, a good get. This is kind of like getting Greenland right here. And uh, so anyway, I just wanted to throw that out. I just want more emails. Anyway, here we go. And so as he went to establish his power by the river Euphrates. Now notice this the expansion of the kingdom of Israel is going to expand as far as the river Euphrates. Euphrates is in Iraq, everybody. But that was part of the original borders that God determined for the nation of Israel. I'll just you don't need to turn there real quickly. It's Genesis 15 and Genesis 15. Uh, this is verse 18. It says, On the same day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your descendants I have given this land from the river of Egypt, meaning the Nile, to the great river, the river Euphrates. And so God's original intent for the Jewish people was to occupy everything between the Nile River and Egypt to the Euphrates River and Iraq. That's like 300,000 square miles. The fact that they only occupy today about 8100 square miles is why I always say, when anybody ever says, if Israel would just give up land, they could have peace. Do you understand? They don't even occupy a tenth of what God originally wanted them to have. So that's not the answer, especially among people who want you just exterminated. I mean, that doesn't just give us land, and then maybe we won't want to exterminate you as much. That isn't the way it works. I mean, people who want you gone want also your land, but they want all of it. That's why they're chanting, the terrorists are chanting, and then people who jump on the bandwagon from the river to the sea. They're talking about from Jordan River to Mediterranean Sea. We just want Israel gone. We want the Jews gone. Well, what was God's original intent? Now River to Euphrates. Under King David, the borders of Israel expand to some of its largest boundaries, and he's going all the way out here now to the river Euphrates. It says in verse 4, David took from him, this is from uh Hadadizar, 1,000 chariots, 7,000 horsemen, and 20,000 foot soldiers. Also David hamstrung all the chariot horses, except that he spared enough of them for 100 chariots. Now, why all of you horse lovers, you're like, oh, how cruel. Well, this is war, and what he's doing is he's rendering uh the cavalry uh powerless by hamstring the horses. He doesn't kill the horses, he just makes them uh not able to run. And so that that helps David to know that they're not gonna mount the Calvary with chariots and come and attack him. So he hamstrings most of them, but he left, you know, a hundred. Like you guys can have a hundred, but you just can't have an army of uh Calvary again like he used to. Verse 5, when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer, king of Zobah, David killed 22,000 of the Syrians. And then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became David's servants and brought tribute. And so the Lord preserved David wherever he went. And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem, also from Tibhat and from Chun, cities of Hadadezer. David brought a large amount of bronze with which Solomon made the bronze sea, the pillars and the articles of bronze. Now, just make note of that. Remember, David had a heart to build a temple permanently in Jerusalem to the Lord. And God, I'm paraphrasing, basically said, thanks, but no thanks, David. Your hands have shed blood. You're a warrior, so your son is going to be one, the one to build me a temple. So even though God had designed that Solomon, the son of David would build a temple, David still had it in his heart. Well, let me at least gather the resources, the precious metals, the timber, the things that can be used in the eventual building of the temple. So one of the things that he's doing here when he conquers these various countries is he's taking their gold, he's taking their silver, he's taking their bronze. And it tells us specifically here that the bronze that he captured, that he plundered, rather, uh, would be used. Solomon would later use it to fashion some of these articles that would end up going in the temple. Keep reading, verse 9. Now, when two, king of Hamath heard that David had defeated all the army of Hadadezer, king of Zobah, he sent Hadoram, his son to King David to greet him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him, for Hadadezer had been at war with two. And Hadoram brought with him all kinds of articles of gold, silver, and bronze. Okay, now you know why you do this, right? It's like we really don't want you to kill us, so we're gonna bring you a gift. And so bring him gold and silver and bronze. Verse 11, King David also dedicated these to the Lord, along with the silver and gold that he had brought from all these nations, from Edom, from Moab, from the people of Ammon, from the Philistines, and from Amalek. Moreover, Abishai, now circle his name, come back to him. Abishai, the son of Zuriah, killed 18,000 Edomites in the valley of Salt. This is down by the Dead Sea. That's why it's called the Valley of Salt. He also put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's servants, and the Lord preserved David wherever he went. And so David reigned over all Israel and administered judgment and justice to all his people. Joab, you can circle his name also, the son of Zuriah. Now, I ask you to circle Joab and Abishai. Abishai is also the son of Zariah. These guys are brothers. Who is Zariah? Zariah is David's sister. David's sister, we find that back in chapter 2, verse 16. And she be she is the mother of three of David's great generals. Abishai is one of them. Joab is another, and Asahel is the third son. He's not mentioned here. He's mentioned back in chapter 11, 26. I just think it's remarkable in this sense that Zariah, David's sister. So these these guys are obviously these three generals in David's army, these great leaders, military leaders, are David's nephews. They are sons of his sister. And I don't, I don't have like a point for this, other than just deep admiration for this woman because she raised three generals. I mean, that that is there's something special about her. I mean, that's why she's mentioned here. Um there's something special about her. She she raised warriors for sons. Um they didn't sit around, you know, without a job playing video games. These guys were warriors. These guys were warriors and they fought, and they were men, and they were the mighty men in David's army who who led his military campaigns. So, I don't know, I just I just personally have deep respect here for her, raising three sons who were three generals, part of David's like fighting force here. So, verse 15, Joab the son of Zurih was over the army, Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud was recorder, Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar were the priests. Shavshah was the scribe, Baniah the son of Jehoiada was over the Kerathites and the Pelathites, and David's sons were chief ministers at the king's side. So that last section there is this is David's cabinet, basically, and it included his military officials and his various ministers and secretaries of war and all this kind of stuff. So that's the list there. Let's go into chapter 19. And it happened after this that Nahash, the king of the people of Ammon, died, and his son reigned in his place. This is a very strange story we're about to read. But what we find out here is that Nahash is a king who is friends with David, and he dies though. He is the king of Ammon, where is Ammon? Ammon is this, it's the spelling's a little different, but it is the same as Ammon Jordan. So Ammon, the territory of Ammon was more than just the city of Amon Jordan, but it is that area around Amon Jordan today. So we're talking east of the Jordan River. Umon Jordan on a map is almost due east of Jerusalem, but it's that region. This is a foreign region back in David's day. So the king of Amon is a foreigner, but we're talking Jordan. The country today on a map, it'd be the country of Jordan. And it says in verse 2, then David said, I will show kindness to Hanun, the son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me. Like, you know, I want to send him my regards. His father died, his dad was kind to me, so I want to show kindness. And so David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. And David's servants came to Hanun in the land of the people of Ammon to comfort him. But now look, verse 3. And the princes of the people of Ammon said to Hanun, Do you think that David really honors your father because he has sent comforters to you? Did his servants not come to you to search and to overthrow and to spy out the land? And so these princes who are, you know, advisers to Hanun, the new king of Jordan, they're like, you know, we're suspicious about David. I mean, he is, and and you know, no doubt David, David was the most powerful guy right now. So of course, you're either buttering up to David and submitting to him, or you are suspicious of him and you want to resist him and fight him. So these advisors are saying to Hanun, you don't really think David is here sending his grievances, his condolences, I should say, to you about your father. I mean, come on. He's spying at the land, and he's gonna take us down. And so Hanun reacts to this. Verse 4. Therefore Hanun took David's servants, shaved them, and cut off their garments in the middle at their buttocks, and sent them away. This is strange. Now, now, why would you do this? Why would you do this? Okay, first of all, first of all, this is a very stupid thing to do, right? Like, even if you think that David is there on a recon mission, his servants are there on a recon mission to spy out the land. You don't, you don't, you know, poke the bear in the eye, right? So they shave them. Now, you have to. I know it did. We've had there it is. There we go. Can you hear me now? Yeah. Okay, thank you. Um, you have to understand that back in this culture, every man had a beard. Every man. I mean, it was a sign of strength and dignity. So if you were to be clean shaven, that was a humiliation back in this day. And the ones who were clean shaven were slaves. So they are treated now as slaves. They are being humiliated. And if shaving off your beard wasn't humiliation enough, take your, you know, they're there, they've got these garments on, these like tunics. You're taking scissors and your cut, they didn't have scissors, just go with me. You know that they're cutting at the midsection, and so they're leaving a shirt on, and you're completely naked from the waist down. Okay. So now you're you're clean shaven and you're half naked. And this is this is the thanks for sending us your condolences. You know, that this is what they're doing. Now, this is not gonna go well. I can just tell you right now, you don't even need to know the rest of the chapter, do you, to know. This ain't gonna end well. Not for the people of Ammon. You you treat these guys like this, this is not gonna go well, and it doesn't. It doesn't go well. And so it says in verse 7, uh, five, verse five. Then some went and told David about the men, and he sent to meet them, because the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Wait, wait in Jericho until your beards have grown, and then return. Now, it doesn't say, but of course he also adds, and put on some clothes, you know, get some pants. But he's they don't they're so embarrassed they don't even want to come back to Jerusalem. They send messengers, and David sends a messenger to them, say, just hang out in Jericho until your beards grow back, and then you can come back with your dignity. This is a very shameful thing that Hanun has done, and he's listened to some bad advice. And so in verse six says, when the people of Ammon saw that they had made themselves repulsive to David, of course, Hanun and the people of Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver to hire for themselves chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, from Syrian Makkah, and from Zobah. Alright, so Mesopotamia is Iraq, Syria, Syrian Makacah, and Zobah. This is different regions of Syria. So what is the king of Jordan doing? He's hiring basically a mercenary armies from Syria and from Iraq. Because he realizes I've really made David angry now. And so I'm going to pay you guys to come, bring your armies. You're going to help fight me against David. I know he's going to come after me. And so, verse 7, and so they hired for themselves 32,000 chariots with the king of Makah and his people who came and encamped before Medib, and also the people of Ammon gathered together from their cities and came to battle. So they're ready. And now, verse 8, when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of the mighty men. And then the people of Ammon came out and put themselves in battle array before the gate of the city, and the kings who had come were by themselves in the field. You know, I'm just curious. I wonder if the people of Ammon ever were like, Hanun, why in the world did you do this? Like, look, we're now in war because you had to shave these guys and cut off their pants. Like that. This is not going to bode well for us. Well, verse 10, when Joab saw that the battle line was against him, before and behind, he chose some of Israel's best and put them in battle array against the Syrians. And the rest of the people he put under the command of Abishai his brother. And they set themselves in battle array against the people of Ammon. And then he said, This is Joab. If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me. But if the people of Ammon are too strong for you, then I will help you. Be of good courage, and let us be strong for our people and for the cities of our God. And may the Lord do what is good in his sight. Now, folks, I underline that in my Bible because I just love the way that Joab encourages his brother. And he's basically like, I got your back. You got my back. If I start to fail, you're going to come after and fight with me. If you start to fail, I'll come after and fight with you. This is an important reminder to us in general, folks, that we should encourage one another and all the more as we see the day approaching. That's Hebrews 10 25. And Hebrews 10 25, the word day is capitalized because it's talking about the second coming. I just love the way that Joab is encouraging his brother here. He's like, he's he's like, be of good courage, and let us be strong for our people and for the cities of our God. And may the Lord do what is good in his sight. May God help us to be better encouragers. Just in general. Do you have room to be a better encourager? Are there people in your life that you could do a better job encouraging? Because we all need encouragement, and we should all be encouragers. And I just like the way that Joab gives this little encouraging speech here. Well, the Lord helps them because in verse 14 it says, and so there we go. And so Joab, verse 14, and so Joab and the people who were with him drew near for the battle against the Syrians, and they fled before him. And when the people of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fleeing, they also fled before Abishai's brother and entered the city, and so Joab went to Jerusalem. And when the Syrians saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they sent messengers and brought the Syrians who were beyond the river, and Shopak, the commander of Hadadezer's army, went before them. And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel, crossed over the Jordan, and came upon them and set up in battle array against them. And so when David had set up in battle array against the Syrians, they fought with him. And then the Syrians fled before Israel. And David killed seven thousand charioteers and forty thousand foot soldiers of the Syrians and killed Shopak, the commander of the army. And when the servants of Hadadezer saw that they were defeated by Israel, they made peace with David. About time, and became his servants, and so the Syrians were not willing to help the people of Ammon anymore. Yet you learned your lesson the hard way. And it's, you know, it's I said this already, but just don't, in general, let's don't poke the bear. Like be a peacemaker with people. Don't do things that could naturally tick them off or irritate them. Like be a peacemaker. I just want to read the first uh section. We have just five more minutes of chapter 20. Um, verse 1. It happened in the spring of the year, at the time kings go out to battle, that Joab led out the armed force, led out the armed forces, and ravaged the country of the people of Ammon and came and besieged Rabbah, but David stayed in Jerusalem, and Joab defeated Rabbah and overthrew it. Okay, now Chronicles, remember, Chronicles is a summary handbook of the Jewish history, particularly for the Jews who have been exiled in Babylon, so that when they came back, they had a condensed version of their history. The writer of Chronicles condenses some things that 1 and 2 Samuel or 1 and 2 Kings tells us that the writer of Chronicles does not. What the writer of Chronicles leaves out right here is when it tells us in the springtime when kings go out to war. David stayed home. Joab, the general of David's army, went out and fought. But in reality, David should have gone to war too. And when he stayed back while his army was fighting, this is when, and Chronicles doesn't tell us, but 2 Samuel 11 tells us, this is when he fell into adultery with Bathsheba. Because he should have been at war, and instead he was back in a palace, and he was just living a life of ease while his general and his army was out fighting. And let me just read through the end of this section, and then I'll give us a takeaway from it. And Joab defeated Rabbi and overthrew it. Verse 2, and then David took their king's crown from his head and found it to weigh a talent of gold. Now note this, I'll come back to it. And there were precious stones in it, and it was set on David's head. Also he brought out the spoil of the city in great abundance, and he brought out the people who were in it and put them to work with saws and with iron picks and with axes. And so David did to all the cities of the people of Ammon, and then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. So he successfully defeats Ammon, that whole territory. He puts the people to work. He takes the crown of the king, and they they seize it when they take Ammon. It weighs a talent of gold. Now, folks, a talent is 75 pounds. Now, how do you wear a crown that weighs 75 pounds? Some Bible commentaries say that it's not, even though a talent is a measure of weight, it was referring more to the value of the crown than the actual heaviness of it. Because, I mean, how do you wear a crown of 75 pounds? But let me translate the value, because I had to look it up today. Gold's going for around $5,000 an ounce, 75 pounds. That's 1,200 ounces. That's six million dollars in today's value. The crown, and that doesn't even count the jewels. Okay, just the gold was worth in today's value six million dollars that they had seized. But I want to end on this note about how David stayed back at the palace in Jerusalem, because here's here's the takeaway from me. Beware of ease. It's our downtime when Satan works over time. It's our downtime when Satan works over time. When we are idle, that's when Satan loves to take advantage of us and our flesh. It isn't to blame everything on the devil. David's flesh was fully operational here. But don't you know that certainly the devil played on that? And David committed adultery, and he he fell into sin. And the fact is he wouldn't have fallen into sin had he been where he was supposed to be, which was fighting with his men. So because he had adopted a life of ease, that's when the enemy loves to take advantage of us. So stay in the word. Stay in the word, stay in the word, stay in the word. Stay busy, keep praying, and don't let the enemy take advantage of your flesh. Everybody, can you hear that much? All right, let's pray. Lord, we we just thank you for your word. We just pray, God, that you would impress these things on our heart, and that as we leave here tonight, you would remind us, Lord, of your strength, of your power, of your grace. Help us not to be caught off guard by the wiles of the enemy. May we be smart about our own flesh and about how the enemy loves to take advantage of our flesh, that we would, Lord, stay close to you. We would stay close to you, not allow idle time as the opportunity for the devil to have his way with us. So, Lord, help us in this way. Thank you. Lord, David's example as tragic as it was. His sin is a reminder to us that any of us is vulnerable. Any of us, help us, Lord, to guard our hearts and our lives and our minds in Christ Jesus. Be with us now as we leave here tonight. Bring us back here on Sunday. We give you praise and glory and honor in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. God bless everybody. Hopefully we'll have this all fixed out by Sunday. We'll see you then. Stamp down. The road ahead. Stamp into the wild. The world inside your head. Wow, we're still us down because we will border up. The spark in your heart and the fire that's in your eyes.